There's two things I
kinda wanna point out.
One, we are testing a Redux reducer.
It's a real Redux reducer.
It's like coming from one of those,
create React, or no,
Redux toolkit and slices, right?
So one of the things that I feel and
my hills that I'm willing to die on,
is taking as much of our state management
out of our view layer as possible,
makes it easy to unit test, right?
Whether or not you use Redux or you use
Reducer in just regular React function or
use that pattern, right,
somewhere else as well, all a reducer is,
is a function that takes
the current state of the word,
and a thing that happens and
spits out a new state of the word.
And because it's a JavaScript function,
super easy to unit test, right,
without having to mount the component.
Hit the button, you might wanna make
sure that buttons are disabled and
stuff renders appropriately.
But what's really nice about it,
it's just a JavaScript function.
And we can grab it, and
we can test it because again,
it's just a function, takes two arguments,
spits out one argument.
So we can go ahead and
we can see that for ourselves.
And then we can go ahead and look at some
of the asymmetrical matchers to show,
hey, if somebody adds another field
to this object because for reasons,
right, disabled, enabled,
I don't know what have you.
My tests won't break cuz they're
expecting a very specific structure.
My tests will look at the things
that I care about and
not look at the things I don't care about.
And again, can you do this
individual expectations as well?
Sure, but a lot of the times,
what you're aiming for here,
is not necessarily writing less code.
It's like getting a better
error message when it breaks.
Be like, cool,
you just saw one thing broke, right,
versus across a bunch of tests versus
like, cool, this is one object, hey,
it got all these things except for
this one thing here.
You'll get an error message that shows
you, the difference in the object.
So my first test is in fact already
running, let's just do npm test.
I'm gonna say item slice, and
I'm gonna say .test because
I have one called .solution.
It's got the answers in it.
And so normally,
I wouldn't have to put the .test, but
because they're similarly named.
So one passing 7 todo, all right.
Let's go ahead and let's make it,
in this case fail, cuz it does not have
any assertions, we'll keep that here for
now just to make a point.
So with reducers, if they get an action
they don't know how to deal with,
they don't have a case for,
nothing happens, right?
In this case, if we look at the reducer,
not the type,
if we look at the reducer, the default
state is an empty array, and so
it will always return that
state as an empty array.
Cool, cool, cool.
In this case, we are gonna add, and we'll
send it an object with the name iPhone.
Now, what's super great is,
you know what I don't have to do?
Write a bunch of tests where
I call with the add type,
but without something with the right
properties of name and iPhone because,
you know who's checking that for me?
TypeScript is, right?
So if I said something like model 14,
you can see that I already got
a red squiggly line without having a giant
set of tests that I used to have to write.
I don't have to write any more, and I'm
happier for it because again, I like to
ship product features confidently, I
don't actually like writing tests, right?
I just like not feeling really scared
whenever we do a deploy, right?
Unless it's a change to auth cuz I
break auth every single time I touch it.
Cool, cool, cool.
So we have this, so
we can say we can expect the reducer,
we haven't got the result in this case,
we expect a result,
which is that return value, right?
And in this case,
we can say that, it should equal,
Equal an array,
cuz we knew that it spits out an array.
And honestly,
whatever else gets added to this type,
maybe there's more features other
than just name and packed and
then ID, I don't really care,
as long as we get an object.
So I can say, it should be an array,
and we expect an object containing,
In this case, name: iPhone.
Now we can guess, just by looking at
the type, that there is an ID on there and
there is a packed value.
I say we could all look at the type,
but I also wrote the code, so
I happen to know that, and
that an item is an array.
We can go sec, they've got an ID,
they've got a packed, so on and so forth.
But as long as we had
an array of one thing,
if I put a second one in here,
for instance, that will fail.
Because we said an array of one thing,
as long as that item, as long as that one
thing has the name iPhone, right,
other things can change in there.
But we are validating that there is
exactly one thing in that array,
that is safer than popping the first
thing off the array, right,
cuz it could have been a second thing
in there, you didn't test for that.
That means that test didn't fail,
which means your code didn't work, and
your test passed, worst case scenario.
Here, we are assuming when
we say that it is an array,
and that it has exactly one item in it,
and
as long as an item has a name iPhone,
I don't care anything else about it.
Yeah, I can be cavalier about this cuz I
have TypeScript, then I can assume that
this test is probably more resilient than
me trying to get clever with things.
Again, try to index zero off of it,
cuz next thing after you go like, okay,
expect results that length to be one,
then expect that the first item has
a name property, then expect,
you know what I mean?
In this case, I can kind of say
that a lot more succinctly.
And then if we scroll up here,
right, I kind of get a better,
we have that one ObjectContaining
with name iPhone, great.
And then there was a second object
in here, that is a lot clearer for
me to read than which one
of those assertions broke.
Maybe the length one would be helpful,
but again for me,
this is super clear to be like, hey,
there was one I was looking for, and
then there was another one, +, +, + above
it in red, that shouldn't have been there.
Cool, and then we wanna make
sure that it prefixes those
UUIDs with item in this case,
so we'll go ahead and
we will,
it fails because there's no assertions.
Cool, so in this case,
we could combine these a little bit.
So I'm gonna grab this, And
I'm gonna say it's got an id,
and that should be, StringContaining.
And I'm gonna say that it starts off.
That way,
I'm getting a little more specificity.
And we fail, why do we fail?
StringMatching, if I'm gonna use a Regex.
Cool, and now it passes.
Again, I'm just verifying
the parts that I care about, and
I can move on with my life, and
this test will be resilient, Mark?
>> If most state mutations occur on
the server and are refetched to update
the DOM, does it still make sense to
make all of the unit tests async, or
is there a better way to
test async code faster?
>> So if most of the state management
is happening on the server,
ideally, a lot of this is
happening on the server.
In this case, this will also come up
when we get to mocking and spying,
which is insofar that we talk to servers,
the majority of the asynchronous
things we do are talking to servers.
It all depends, if there are things
like a transition that should take
a certain amount of time, or
something along those lines, then sure.
But if it's a network request, and
it's code that you don't control,
then might not have a lot of asynchronous
stuff happening in your code, right?
This reducer is completely synchronous,
for instance.
We don't usually for the most part tend to
purposely add promises to our
code when we don't need to.
However, there are certain browser based
APIs that return a promise by default and
stuff along those lines.
So in those cases, then we do need to
use async code, but as much as you need,
as little as you can get away with,
is I think, a decent heuristic for that.
But yeah, And
these aren't necessarily asynchronous.
These are just basically partial matching
an object for the parts that we care about
so that our tests don't break,
cuz something we don't care about changed.
Yeah, this one will be roughly
the same concept that we saw before,
has a packed status of false.
I was just gonna show you that you
don't necessarily have to do this.
If you hate this, and you're like,
no, this is not for me,
let's look at what it would look
like in the other direction,
you can see more of
the same in the solution.
So I could say, expect and
grab the first.
We can do, expect(result.length),
Cuz we wanna make sure this
is valid .toBe(1), okay?
But whenever you write two assertions, you
gotta make sure you write the second one,
cuz this test isn't doing what
it says on the tin just yet.
So then I could expect,
so then we could grab,
const item = result
expect(item
.packed).toBe(false).
Now, the reason that I hate this is,
cuz if I mess this up in any way shape or
form, right, or maybe it starts out with
a default set of things all of a sudden,
right, this is problematic.
Let's say that code broke and it's not
actually setting it to false anymore,
this test would still pass versus,
when I'm just saying,
it should be one thing,
it should have an object.
I don't care about anything else as
long as it's got the thing I want,
this is one expectation,
one error message.
Very clear,
this can get a little squirrely.
For instance, if I make this true,
this will probably be pretty
clear cuz it's pretty easy.
But you can see in a bigger object,
it might not be.
Supports removing an item,
right, in this case,
we might wanna verify that
does not contain that, right?
I could verify in this case
that it's an empty array again,
that would technically do the trick,
but spiritually, not really.
So in this case, I could say, expect
(result).not.
I could use a toContain, or
I could actually toEqual an empty array.
In this case,
I wanna make sure that it does not have,
Too much object.
Let's say.
I'm doing this live at this point,
but let's say, real time follow up.
Yeah, so this guy is like, hey, as long
as it's not any object that contains
the id of 1, I don't care about
the rest of the details here, right?
It just should not have the 1,
that I just explicitly removed.
This way, if this became a lot bigger and
we didn't wanna have this in this test,
to the question I was getting earlier,
and we wanna just have one maybe larger
objects that we're kinda pulling in, and
maybe I don't wanna see it in the test.
I can be very be like, listen,
I just removed this one.
I don't really care what's in there
as long as it's not the thing
I just removed, right?
That is effectively spiritually
what our code is doing,
not anything we might write
to get to the same result.
Cool, and we can see more of
the same basic ideas here,
definitely check it out in the solution.
In the sake of time, I'm gonna
kinda put a pin in there as well,
we kinda get the point of,
how we can be somewhat flexible.
And again, this goes to that
architectural question of,
how do we have a test suite that doesn't
break, right, so that we trust it, right?
Cuz even if it's like, you as a human,
you get to the point where build breaks.
You get to one of those things which is
like, you don't necessarily believe it was
you anymore, which has already made
your test suite worthless, right?
And so, sometimes the way that we
structure the way we think about these
things, it's not about necessarily
a number, it's about that gut feeling of,
if you find yourself not believing that
the build process failed for a real reason.
It's like that is the sibling of, I don't
feel comfortable changing this code,
right?
And both of those are like,
this is a very technical course,
where we're relying on our gut feels
as our barometer of success, right?
Can I bump that dependency?
Can I just run npm-check-updates -u,
all wild and
just be confident that if my tests pass,
I'm good?
If the answer to that question is no,
then that's where some of these
strategies begin to take place.
And some of those will be unit tests,
some of those will be like,
listen, I had a browser go work
through the entire application.
Touch everything like, yeah,
we mocked out the network requests, or
something like that, but works,
I feel comfortable, right?
Great, right?
But generally speaking, it's usually
a cocktail of both unit tests, as well as
these larger tests to make sure that some
little thing isn't breaking and the big
thing isn't breaking, and that's what gets
me to that confidence level in this case.